
My take on 'Design Thinking'

Dear Mr. Ravi,

First of all I would like to thank you so much for delivering such a thought-provoking and engaging session.

To be completely honest, this was not my first encounter with the term 'design thinking'. I heard it while my father was talking with a client, and I assumed it was just another trendy buzzword at the time; little did I know how significant it really was!

I don't know when I would have come across design thinking again if it hadn't been for your session last week.

After going through several online resources and  I'd like to share some of my thoughts on design thinking:

I would like to think of all such techniques & methodologies like design thinking are tools in our tool box. Each being perfect for different challenges.
The more I read about design thinking, the more I understood that it was more than a technology-focused procedure.

According to Tim Brown of IDEO, “There’s no single definition for design thinking. It’s an idea, a strategy, a method, and a way of seeing the world.” According to this quote it clearly states that design thinking is not just a recipe, rather it is a philosophy and a mindset combined with multiple different exercises you can choose from depending on how you want to make dish right.

Though stated in a linear fashion, these steps (viz Empathize, Define, Ideate, Prototype, Test) do not have to be carried out in this order, and the actual order of execution is highly dependent on the challenge at hand.

So what I like about Design Thinking is the systematic approach to zooming into the area where the solutions lie during the Empathize & Define stage and the purposeful generation of ideas that is very helpful in ensuring an effective & creative solution. Iterating this process until we find the right solution is what inspires me about design thinking.

I noticed some similarities in the empathise stage: in which we have to put ourselves in the shoes of the end-user we get to understand the user's pain points. In the startup world founders have been doing something similar called "Dogfooding" if this interests you please check it out.

To sum up:
Whether we are solving a problem in business, technology, or our everyday lives, I believe how we build our design thinking approach is entirely up to us.

Each problem requires a unique solution, so design thinking should be used as a philosophy and way of life rather than a direct solution.

Isn't that what we're aiming for here at Robosoft: Emotion Engineering and Design?




Similarly, the creative exercises that comprise the various phases of the design thinking process can vary greatly depending on the approach.

Tim Brown of IDEO:
“There’s no single definition for design thinking. It’s an idea, a strategy, a method, and a way of seeing the world.”

According to this quote it clearly states that design thinking is not just a recipe, it is a philosophy and a mindset combined with multiple different exercises you can choose from depending on how you want to make dish right.

Empathize, Define, Ideate, Prototype, Test



many people/companies are doing this but havent realized it yet

it cant be seen as a direct solution because everything requires a different solution so as a philosophy and way of thing it should be used but you cant expect it to solve problems

the only issue i have with this that this process must take time so how can one make this process more efficient and what happens if the task is highly technical in nature?


How you create your design thinking process is up to you depending on the challenge you are solving. Similarly, the creative exercises that comprise the different phases of the design thinking process can be widely different for different approaches.


and isn't that what we are trying to achieve here at robosoft emotion engg and design?

The design thinking process can be broken up into 5 main phases:

Empathize: conduct research to develop a deep understanding of the end users (this is called user research). Empathy allows design thinkers to see the world from the user’s perspective and lets them set aside their own biases and assumptions.
Define: gain insights from the research and use them to define the problem(s) to be solved. In this stage design thinkers turn the identified problems into questions or create specific problem statements from them.
Ideate: generate a wide range of creative ideas to solve the defined problems.
Prototype: build representations for a range of your solutions. These can be anything, even drawings on a piece of paper, as long as it effectively represents the idea to the users.
Test: return to the users for feedback on the prototyped solutions.
The next step is to go back in the loop and make iterations on your solutions, ideas, or even problem statements. These steps may seem like part of a linear process but that’s mostly not the case. The phases can be combined to form an iterative process that can be adapted to the challenge at hand.

//rather than it  could be applied anything in our day to day lives to improve our welllbeing


////////////////////////////////////////////
I take this question to mean an assessment of Design Thinking and possibly how it compare against other methods/techniques for creativity, design & innovation.

Firstly, I like to think of all such techniques & methodologies as tools in our tool box. Each being perfect for something and lousy for others. As an example, a hammer is perfect if you would like to drive a nail into a piece of wood but is hopeless for cutting that same piece of wood.

The steps/phases for Design Thinking can be roughly described as Understand, Observe, Ideate & Prototype - yes there are other variants but for the purpose of addressing this question, lets just use these 4 steps as capturing the essence of Design Thinking. Though stated in a linear fashion, these steps need not be executed in this order and the actual order of execution is very much dependent on the challenge at hand. I like to group these 4 steps with Understand and Observe together and Ideate and Prototype the other. You would almost always start with Understand+Observe in any order and you will iterate between them until you gain sufficient insight into the challenge to know what you need to shoot at. By this I mean, you have gained the necessary insight that you are fairly certain where the solution lies. You will still not have the final answer but perhaps some general concept(s). It could just be that you have understood the root cause of the challenge and/or was inspired by the what you have understood or saw during this process. With this insight, you would ideate and prototype iteratively until you have a solution you are happy with. Here is where you would apply thinking techniques to generate ideas and prototype to proof workability and effectively of concepts and work your way to a complete solution that you have tested to a large extend.

So what I like about Design Thinking is the systematic approach to zooming into the area where the solution(s) lie during the understand+observe stage and the purposeful generation of ideas that is very helpful in ensuring an effective/creative solution. It feels like madness and it can be very scary in the early stages where you are unable to gain the insight you are hoping for. Yet I find many Design Thinking practitioner very comfortable in this uncertainty.

If you look at the tools/techniques for observation and prototyping, there is such a strong focus on usability that the voice of the customer is always present. As such, Design Thinking is perfect when designing/developing solutions for people.

Methodology like TRIZ (a technique based on trends of technology evolution and past invention by Genrich Altshuller) on the other hand, has inventive principles and procedure that will guide your thinking towards one or more of these inventive principles. It is a lot more structured and perfect for technical challenge especially in the field of mechanical engineering. It is capable of things way beyond Design Thinking for highly technical challenges. It addresses usability but there is no special attention to it. Again as mentioned earlier, these would just be another tool in our toolbox and I would literally switch my thinking to Design Thinking or TRIZ or whatever else depending on the challenge at hand. As the saying goes, “everything will look like a nail if all you have is a hammer.”

So what I think of Design Thinking is that it is a powerful tool especially when you are working on a challenge where the voice of the customer is important. Not the kind of tool I would recommend when the challenge is highly technical.


////////////
Dear Mr. Ravi,

First of all, I would like to thank you so much for delivering such a thought-provoking and engaging session. 

To be completely honest, this was not my first encounter with the term 'design thinking'. I heard it while my father was talking with a client, and I assumed it was just another trendy buzzword at the time; little did I know how significant it really was! 

After going through several online resources and I'd like to share some of my thoughts on design thinking:
I would like to think of all such techniques & methodologies like design thinking are tools in our tool box. Each being perfect for different challenges.
According to Tim Brown of IDEO, “There’s no single definition for design thinking. It’s an idea, a strategy, a method, and a way of seeing the world.” According to this quote it clearly states that design thinking is not just a recipe, rather it is a philosophy and a mindset combined with multiple different exercises you can choose from depending on how you want to make dish right.

Though stated in a linear fashion, these steps (viz Empathize, Define, Ideate, Prototype, Test) do not have to be carried out in this order, and the actual order of execution is highly dependent on the challenge at hand.

So, what I like about Design Thinking is the systematic approach to zooming into the area where the solutions lie during the Empathize & Define stage and the purposeful generation of ideas that is very helpful in ensuring an effective & creative solution. Iterating this process until we find the right solution is what inspires me about design thinking.

I noticed some similarities in the empathize stage: in which we have to put ourselves in the shoes of the end-user we get to understand the user's pain points. In the startup world founders have been doing something similar called "Dogfooding" if this interests you, please check it out.
To sum up:
Whether we are solving a problem in business, technology, or our everyday lives, I believe how we build our design thinking approach is entirely up to us.

Each problem requires a unique solution, so design thinking should be used as a philosophy and way of life rather than a direct solution.
Isn't that what we're aiming for here at Robosoft: Emotion Engineering and Design (Thinking)?

I would love to hear your thoughts on this. 

Regards,
Siddhesh Sawant
Bilingual Engineer | +91-8380974184 | Email


Hello Karthik Sir,
I would have really appreciated it if you would have informed me of your decision a bit earlier since I have already booked my deparure and arrival tickets.
Regarding my performance I am putting efforts as much as I can since I have to handle my japanese studies as well 